# The-Sequential-Budgeted-Portfolio-Optimization-Problem

This repository contains the code related to the work 'The sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem on online social platforms'

In this notebook we evaluate the performance of our models introduced in our manuscript. First, we introduce a new framework of the influencer selection problem where the advertiser takes decisions over several epochs in a fixed influencer bucket of users, aiming to find the best set of influencers and the best associated participation rates that maximise the return-of-investment (ROI) in a short time horizon. In this context, the ROI is unknown, possibly noisy, continuous and costly to evaluate for the advertiser. Later, we proceed to make a new implementation for the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem based on the implementation of the library GPyOpt in python. This new implementation is necessary because on a practical level the such library presents problems in the Bayesian optimization framework with small volume feasible sets like the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem. Specifically as we stated, since that the acquisition function is maximized in the Bayesian optimization framework by uniformly sampling points in $\mathbb{R}^{k},$ then when the feasible set is small as in the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem, we have that the Algorithm of the library GPyOpt is inefficient in time since many points will be outside the feasible set for influencer buckets with more than 5 users. The above problem generates a bottleneck in time when we try to force the library GPyOpt into the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem for influencer buckets with more than 5 users. For this reason, it is necessary to make the uniform sampling of points in the feasible space of the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem more efficient than the library GPyOpt. Therefore, this new and more efficient implementation for the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem is presented in the archive 'The sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem.ipynb' by using the modified joint libraries. Our last contribution is to present an empirical observation based on the curse of dimensionality in the Bayesian optimization framework to argue that it is not necessary to choose a considerable number of users in the influencer bucket if the influencer bucket is correctly chosen by the advertiser. In this way, we proceed to present an algorithm of the sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem, to find the cardinality of the influencer bucket based on a measure that ranks a user on a social network by the impact of its activity in the ROI. Finally, in 'The sequential budgeted portfolio optimization problem.ipynb' we perform numerical evaluations on a real Twitter data trace to support our empirical observation. 
